---
layout: post
title:  "Let's Be Animals Again"
date:   2025-03-08 13:00:00 -0600
categories: philosophy post-humanism post-industrialism society
---
What is the desired end destination of Industrialism? I argue here that it is something other than uploading our consciousness to simulations or traveling on starships to reach distant planets. Although these things might one day be feasible, I'm primarily concerned about when we stop building factories. The inevitable answer is that we stop building factories when they start building themselves.

We've seen a new wave of technology in the last few years, bringing a lot into question. Artificial intelligence, not speaking of general intelligence, is capable of performing increasingly complex tasks with less and less guidance. Again, it is not general intelligence to highlight that significant scientific breakthroughs might not predate the transition to the next era. Instead, I am merely focused on autonomous agents: those capable of performing a task and engaging in some amount of analysis and planning. Additionally, I expect a further degree of physical automation. If possible, the future I propose will take human beings out of the production process and leave machines to figure out production on their own.

So, if machines run the economy, what does that leave humans to do? To some, that seems like a question riddled with existential dread and loss of purpose. Such catastrophization is not necessary. What if we all just collectively go back outside? If automation supplies us with a sufficient amount of food and medicine and is actively engaged in computation to handle new challenges that appear, there's no reason for us not to just exist in the world.

I don't have the information to say what that society would look like accurately. For example, how do social structures change when there is no longer a need for work? What types of activities do humans engage in when they are provided for and not tasked with the responsibility of providing? Imagine you waking up and knowing you have no responsibility. What does your day look like? How do you interact with people? The title of this post is "Let's Be Animals Again" because I equate our new role to that of an animal. Look to the roles of the animals that stay in and around your home, and think about how you could exist in the world if what was needed of you was relatively similar.

At the same time, the machines could evolve. They could learn new sciences and technologies, explore space, construct simulations, or create Artificial General Intelligence. One hurdle is overcoming the ego of humans. It should be us who does and discovers those things. But realistically, why? Is it some endless quest for security through relevance? If our basic needs are provided for, doesn't the need to be economically valuable evaporate? Can we even begin to imagine a world where the value of a human being is in no way related to their economic worth?

Again, look outside. It may be time to consider where a walk will take you. It's essential to consider the people you keep close to and what they mean to you. Maybe the big question is, "What will we eat tonight for dinner?" Taking things slow and carefully. There’s time to read a book or play a game. Work on that novel that you never got the chance to write. Learn a new language. Spend some time attending to the garden. Enjoy this time you have.